Israel is calling the death toll after
Saturday's terrorist attack staggering
it is now known that Hamas militants
killed at least 12200 people and that
most were civilians the new number has
come to light as the military discovers
more bodies Israel has intensified its
air strikes on Gaza in retaliation
Palestinian officials say at least 900
people there have been killed and
thousands more
wounded Israel is also m troops on the
border and is widely expected to start a
ground offensive into Gaza soon DW's
Rebecca ritters reports from the Israeli
town of zuro close to the Gaza
Strip This is the stot police station or
what's left of it and it's the scene of
one of the biggest battles during this
ordeal Hamas militants were H up inside
and the Israeli military were caught up
in a 20-hour gun
battle local residents left terrified
and and
angry horrifying because we saw them
running around here everywhere we were
pretty much innocent and we didn't have
anything to do in this entire situation
no weapons to you know protect ourselves
nothing to actually do in this situation
I've been through BS but not nothing
like this nothing like animals and
and who slaughtered and and butchers our
kids and
sisters and our fathers and our children
and our
babies and everything such a qued Israel
is responding to the attacks with
massive air strikes on the Gaza Strip
the Israeli government has told gazans
to evacuate but the territory is trapped
between Israel Egypt and the
Mediterranean Sea most residents have
nowhere to go to escape the bombs one
woman said her brother died while trying
to follow Israel's instructions to
relocate we'd fled to escape death there
were continuous air strikes the Israelis
told us to come down to Kan yunas but we
only found death there if we stay home
we die if we go in the streets we die my
beloved brother fled from one place to
another my beloved brother may your soul
rest in
peace the Skies over Gaza are filled
with rockets and missiles flying in both
directions
incoming and outgoing fire in the
Israeli town of ashalon north of the
Gaza Strip Hamas Rockets continue to
cause destruction Israel has called up
hundreds of thousands of reservists As
It prepares the next stage of its
retaliation at least one government
Minister has joined the troops to avenge
what he calls Israel's
911 this is not going to be another
Circle we're going to chase and hunt
each and every militant of Hamas we're
going to change Chase and Hunt their
leaders and we will fight until the end
against them and we will be victorious
not just for us but for the sake of the
Civilized
World a ground offensive by Israeli
forces looks likely prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu told his country to
prepare for a long and difficult war
that he says will reshape the Middle
East and joining us from Tel Aviv is
Lieutenant Colonel Jonathan conriquez
from the Israeli Army uh Lieutenant
Lieutenant Colonel thank you so much for
your time uh Israel is massing forces on
gaza's Border there is of course
speculation that a a ground offensive
into Gaza is imminent is that something
being considered or planned as things
stand
now yes good night thank you for having
me on your show Israel
is fighting for and defending itself on
three fronts the southern front in Gaza
which you have spoken about is still
active and there are still attacks by
terrorists trying to get into Israeli
communities they are met by Israeli
soldiers who are ready to engage and
have ended all of these engagements with
killed terrorists in the latest hours
both in Ashkelon and in another
community in the South Rockets have been
fired at Israel from Syria we do not yet
know if it was Iranian proxies kisah or
the Syrian Armed Forces um but we
retaliated fire towards those who fired
and currently the situation there is
stable in the north along our northern
border balah and other Iranian proxy
Terror organization has fired anti-tank
missiles and other terrorists have tried
to infiltrate across the border all of
those events have since been taken care
of and currently there is no fighting
there but we are deployed in significant
strength and numbers Vigilant and ready
to respond to any aggression from those
areas so in the we have for for spelling
all that out my my question is is is a
ground offensive into Gaza something
that is being planned or
considered yes I was just about to get
to that so in the South we have U
deployed or we have called up 300,000
reservists from infantry armor artillery
combat engineers and uh combat
intelligence units they are now around
the Gaza Strip getting ready to execute
their missions preparing getting their
gear and everything in order the
assignment that is that the IDF has been
given by by the Israeli Min the Israeli
government is to take away all of Hamas
military activities so that at the end
of this war Hamas does not have any
military capacity to kill terrorize or
hurt Israeli civilians can I can I take
your answer to mean that you are not
ruling out a ground offensive into
Gaza you'd be correct in assessing that
all options are on the table and as I
said our troops are preparing in order
to implement the mission to execute the
mission that we have been given by the
Israeli government we are at war against
a bloodthirsty Terror organization that
is as brutal ruthless and inhumane as
Isis was in its worst days and I think
that there is unfortunately ample
evidence of that when you see the images
coming out of the kibuts the communities
along the Gaza Strip of 40 5050 and
hundreds of Israeli bodies that are
scattered across those communities
including women children and the elderly
the only conclusion that you can make
once you see that footage is that we are
dealing with monsters that have no
regard for human life and crossed the
border only in order to kill and take
hostage Israeli civilians sir You' just
mentioned these hostages and I do want
to ask you about that how does this uh
very very complicated Mission uh
complicate these efforts in terms of
getting to the hostages held by Hamas
militants because on the one hand there
is uh there are strikes from the Israeli
military onto Gaza but on the other hand
you you you want to rescue the hostages
that are uh being held in Gaza could you
could you spell this out a bit more
clearly for us the complicated uh the
mission that's ahead of you
I think you touched upon the complexity
quite well the situation is that there
are dozens of Israelis in Gaza most of
them are civilians I'm talking about
women
children disabled people elderly people
and even babies or toddlers there's even
a holocaust Survivor that we assess is
being held by Hamas uh we know of uh
hostages that are also with dual
nationality there are Americans Germans
French Brits Brazilians and ukrainians
and from additional countries that are
being held by Hamas so this situation
this extremely complex situation is not
an Israeli problem only an Israeli
problem but we are talking about many
countries that have their Nationals at
the uh Mercy or lack of mercy of Hamas
you are right that the complexity here
is immense but our focus is the
Strategic focus of denying balah the
sorry Hamas the ability to have any
military capacity against Israel and
that is what our aerial campaign is
focused on and that is what the next
stages of our military operation will be
focused on but it is an unprecedented
issue we have never before been tasked
with dealing with such a complex
sensitive and frankly uh
heartwrenching dilemma that we have
before us today but we will address it
and at the end of this war we will
prevail sir ju just finally could you
spell out for us please what are the
measures that the Israeli military is
taking to minimize both civil civilian
casualties in terms of hostages but also
uh Palestinians in Gaza as Israel
responds to this
attack yes the Gaza Strip is a small and
dense Place more than 2 million people
live there most of them are not Hamas
supporters they live there under
oppression of Hamas and Hamas being
coward terrorists are hiding behind the
civilians and using them as human
Shields and Hamas has purposely
positioned all of their infrastructure
all of their military hardware their
positions their Rockets their bunkers
and every places that Hamas is they have
positioned that behind the civilians and
they are using them as human Shields we
are trying the best we can to strike
only military targets and we act upon
precise intelligence and we try to
deliver very precise ordinance only at
places where we know that Hamas uses
them for military purposes it's
important for me to explain that if
while you're showing footage of what
looks like civilian houses being struck
from the air and collapsing for the
untrained eye the problem with Hamas is
that they don't put signs on buildings
where they have offices and research and
development and command and control
there's no sign that says this is a
Hamas facility they hide be be amongst
the civilians and therefore it's very
important to understand that we are
striking houses and Facilities that look
civilian but they're not because they
are used by terrorists in order to fight
against us and that's why they are
legitimate military targets but I want
to say and emphasize and shortly we are
committed to the law of armed conflict
we do not want to strike civilians and
we will try not to affect civilians as
we carry on with this war against Hamas
in Gaza Lieutenant Colonel Jonathan
conriquez from the Israeli Defense
Forces thank you so much for joining us
thank you for having me good night and
I'm now joined by the DW Middle East
analyst shanie rosanes good to have you
in the studio shanie um we know that the
death hole's risen what more do we know
about the situation on the ground today
are there still Hamas militants in
Israel yes there are um and the problem
is the Israelis don't know how many and
where exactly the assumption is that
there several of them several groups of
them hiding somewhere along Israel once
the Border was crossed and they made it
to Israel and that keeps everybody on
edge that's what we seeing Israel a lot
of AG agitation a lot of alertness also
in the northern border where we see
little inclusions uh coming from uh the
Shiite group kisala in the north so
everything is very very tense and if you
look at Gaza then of course there
there's a lot of suffering those
bombardments constant bombardments from
the air by Israeli uh Air Force so this
is where we stand today Shan it's all
but certain that Israel is preparing a
ground offensive is there any indication
as to when the this offensive will be
launched and and and what it might look
like well um we hear a lot of talks
about this is going to be unprecedented
this is going to be something that we've
never we the Palestinians the region
have never seen before
um Israel is very much aware of the fact
that Hamas is anticipating this uh
ground operation and it's trying to
reinvent the playbook in Gaza it's we
know what we used to see in Gaza it's
quite hard to predict what we're going
to see there's one thing clear that
we're seeing from all uh decision makers
in Israel they will stop at nothing they
have uh the shock is such that they they
sound they sound very militant with very
little care for humanitarian or any
other you know uh considerations and to
that point it's it's pretty clear that
the stated goal here is to eradicate
Hamas sha in the event that that were to
happen and it really looks likely that
that will there's going to be this
vacuum in Gaza what does Israel intend
to do then will we see Israel take full
control of the territory that's part of
we're still not sure of we don't know
there are no clear aims to this war um
to this operation we don't know if
Israel is only trying to dismantle
hamas's military capabilities or Take
Over hamas's Control over over the
territory in total and that would mean
re recapturing Gaza and reoccupying it
which I think very few people in Israel
are interested in um what's
not obviously not spoken out loud at
least are any political diplomatic
solutions that will bring in other
allies from the region um and that I
think will have to inevitably be on the
table but it's still not there uh yet uh
the US President Joe Biden he's spoken
out on the issue we also know that he is
in constant engagement uh with the
Israeli Prime Minister Benyamin n what
do you know about those discussions and
and what did you make of what he had to
say when right from the start it was
important for Biden to clear to clearly
indicate that he's standing behind
Israel and he has also um sent a lot of
Military Support to to the Middle East
the biggest fear looming is Iran and
Iran's involvement you know we we know
that Iran is in the back channels the
one behind to some extent what we're
seeing in Gaza definitely what we will
might be seeing in the north with
hasbalah and that's the biggest fear
that Netanyahu and and Biden are are
sharing and they want to keep Iran at
Bay um we also know that uh from uh
reports that Biden has seen the photos
of the victims of the wreckage of the
horror um Left Behind of the of the
victims who were really uh left in un
unbelievably terrible State and he was
very touched by it and this is also
partially fueling his uh personal anger
as someone who seen himself as a friend
of Israel for many years sh we'll leave
it there for now than uh DW Middle East
analyst sha rosan is
there and we want to get some more
analysis on this and for that I want to
bring in military analyst uh Frank Le he
is in Oxford in the United Kingdom good
to see you Frank rank I I want to talk
about the ground offensive that we're
anticipating in a short moment but let's
begin um with this we understand that it
it it is likely that there are still
some Hamas militants in Israel what do
you make of
that well as shaie said there are almost
certainly considerable numbers I would
suggest the Israelis have killed they
say about
1,500 uh Hamas terrorists and uh they
don't know the numbers of of uh of the
incursion itself I have no doubt at all
that there are dozens at least and of
course there may well be sleeper cells
as well which would be part of the
overall Hamas plan so there's no wonder
as shiny says the Israelis are on pins
about this yeah um Frank we see Israel
stepping up its air strikes uh bombing
buildings in Gaza would these strikes be
part of the preparation for uh this
ground offensive this anticipated ground
offensive yes Christine the what's going
happening now is preparation of the
battlefield as the military term goes
and the Israelis are warning sector by
sector in Gaza to leave and they're
carrying through their their strikes
systematically so this is all part of
probably a uh well certainly part of a
Target list or they're going through a
Target list prepared over a period of
years because they've been planning for
something like this they never wanted to
execute it but they've been planning for
it they know the ground and now that
plan is being
executed and and what will that
execution actually look like what will
we see when the Israeli Army launches uh
that ground
offensive it's difficult to say
tactically there only a limited number
of Ingress and out out to Ingress routs
in which will be heavily defended by by
Hamas they know which way the Israeli is
going to come in when they come in in
force we're likely to see some surprises
what form they take I don't know uh the
form it will take will be an infantry
assault tanks are useful in certain
areas of Gaza but overall the Israeli
armored Core I suspect will be staying
back because Hamas has very effective
anti-tank capabilities in the shape of
uh Russian supplied or rather Russian
made missiles so this is going to be an
infantry battle and it's going to be
horrific it's a three-dimensional battle
anyway it's a heavily urbanized area the
Israelis are going to be worried about
uh uh forces from underneath from the
tunnels from behind from in front of
course and from above uniquely Christine
from the Israeli perspective or rather
for the first time Israeli soldiers are
going to have to be looking up because
Hamas has quite a well-developed uh now
drone Force which it's been putting
together over the last decade or so and
that will remove the Israeli unique
advantage of
surveillance interesting point you make
there I want to look at the the
capabilities on on the Hamas side um
given the resources that they deployed
um in Saturday's attacks does Hamas have
the numbers to resist an Israeli
military ground incursion I'm talking
boots on the ground
here well
Christine the uh the force they deployed
on on over the weekend and recently
amounts to between probably 1500 and
2500 most assessments of hamas's uh
Manpower put it between 15 and 20,000
that's just Hamas so yes they have the
numbers
whether they'll be able to resist the
Israelis is another thing but the
important thing to remember here is both
sides have been planning this for years
and years and Hamas may have the edge on
this because for now anyway because they
have proved themselves over the last few
months to be highly Dynamic so they're
going to be waiting for the Israelis and
that's something of course needless to
say the Israelis are going to be fully
aware of we've got an irresistible Force
meeting an immovable object one side
will have to give I suspect it'll be
Hamas But to answer your point yes
they've got the boots the numbers to to
cause Israel serious damage okay Frank
we'll leave it there thank you military
analyst Frank lri thank you thank
you